[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smartte economy
podcast I was blessed to sit down and
speak with sunny Lou the CEO and
co-founder of vchain Foundation the
foundation tasked with growing the layer
1 public blockchain network that
launched in 2015 today's topics of
discussion included Sunny's Genesis into
the blockchain space and how he's always
been value focused on what this Tech can
bring to new Enterprise entities and
existing Enterprise entities how to use
web3 technology to improve the world the
significance of the VCH chain Enterprise
and general Community what continues to
drive sunny and so much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that the hosts or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode and that
none of this is financial advice with
all that said I really enjoyed chatting
with sunny and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too hey everyone welcome to
the smart economy podcast today we're
joined by Sunny Lou the CEO and
co-founder of the vchain foundation a
foundation tasked with the growth of
vchain a long running public L1
blockchain how are you doing today sunny
I'm doing fine thank you uh for having
me here I'm very glad to be um you know
here to talking to you and share what's
uh going on in vchain yeah I was uh
telling you before we hit the record
button that vchain is one of those OG
chains that I remember when I first got
back into the space um so to kind of
jump off and uh go into the deep end
with this conversation I'm just curious
you've been in the space now for nine
almost 10 years and I just want to hear
your general thoughts on blockchain how
do you see this technology becoming an
integral role and part of a smarter more
interconnected global economy um well
long story um like U firstly you know we
usually try to um that's usually we we
want to to make a jokes about our life
in crypto world right it says one year
in crypto equals seven years in the real
life the let's say the crypto word has
just been shifting so fast and so much
actually this morning when we discuss um
with my team together you know we have
been talking about the regulation
changes we have been talking about the
Enterprise adoptions I would say all of
the challenges we're talking about today
comparing what we have experienced like
in certain 14 even 17 18 it just so much
better it's so much better I would say
it's um generally speaking I would say
you know blockchain is like a like any
type of new technology I think the close
reference we can we can refer to is
internet you know when internet started
um it's a similar situation but um I
think the different part for blockchain
is it just evolves even faster than
internet I think the key difference is
is really open sourced because it's open
sourced like people can learn from each
other right um we can we can share what
we have been proud and also we can learn
from the others and eventually the the
reen The Innovation and invention it
just you know like like that kind of way
rolling rolling out to the whole world
so I I feel like you know um blockchain
is is the revolution for the human
humankind you're not going to just
change the productivity but also the
relationship like how people work
together even how people live together
you know how people GNA communicate or
engage and interact together so I'm I'm
a I'm a pretty exciting about that
actually you know just also years by
years I feel like it's so like closer
and closer to eventually we have been
dreaming we have been talking um it's
just you know nothing better than this I
would say yeah I I love hearing that you
know you've been building a company for
nine years and you still have this this
fire this passion this Stoke to um push
forward this this technology and I mean
I can't overstate how much of an OG you
are in this space V Chain's been around
since 2015 um but I do want to go back a
little bit in time and prior to
launching vchain with uh CZ former CEO
of binance you worked at some major
International Brands Louis Vuitton bardi
3M so I'm just curious how did your
experience back then with these large
Brands um how did that understanding of
how these large International entities
and corporations operate what did that
arm you what kind of knowledge did that
arm you with when you were starting this
brand new blockchain project yeah well
firstly I have to make a correct
statement CZ is not the co-founder of
Vin but uh we do launch the project a
similar time we know each other um back
to you know 15 16 17 um basically I
think uh we launched the IU together
like just one month apart like um I
think I don't remember even like Vin
Star first or binance later but during
that time we do have several
conversations the SEO on uh on on web
like the the hits that you get for
websites that state this is fact is kind
of ridiculous so thank you for for
correcting me and clearing the the air
yeah I think there was some like a
misinformation um but honestly we have
been I think we are one of the very uh
first projects get listed in the binance
um back to
2017 um the funny story is I when I when
I talked to CV and his team um actually
I think he was in too you know when he
when binance moved to too reach just
just for a few days actually they just
got office there was no chair no desk we
basically sitting in the empty office on
the floor you know get some drinks on a
convenience store downstairs and finish
that kind of the talking um but
nevertheless that's some kind of Side
Story um so um so how do we get started
actually you know I I've been into the
space since 13 2013 and u um I've been
fasinated about the Bitcoin and also you
know um the the blockchain technology
behind the Bitcoin I even R through the
Bitcoin y paper several times you know
went to the Bitcoin talk well I don't
know if people still remember or
recognized name that was a BBS bulletin
b b system you know um for people to uh
to
interact um so I I always having um you
know having a mindset is try to Bridging
the technology to some kind of business
value that that was actually coming from
my previous job before I create a vchain
you know I was doing the CIO Chief
Information officer for Louis Vuitton
and my job was connecting technology and
a business you know either try to figure
out any kind of new technology could you
know solve the issues or solve the
problem or boost the the business or any
kind of business might be you know
beneficial for some of the new
technology so always doing that kind of
the bridging job um so when I when I you
know spent like two three years in the
Bitcoin community at that time I just
feel like you know lots of people have
been talking technical only only you
know about the coding the protocols and
consensus block timer all of that stuff
and I feel like if the technology needs
to really go to the real world you know
building up the the the fundament like
like like really cool products useful
products for people to use to be able to
use every day it gonna let's say
requires more than just technology and I
feel like that's my that's my strength
you know I'm able to talk to both of the
people and able to build that kind of
the bridge so I feel like well you know
maybe that's that's my shot and also one
of the interesting conversation I had
with my friend back then they were like
okay you're s 35 years old right now I I
was 35 years you know back to 2015 they
said that's a good sign I was like why
they say well you know jackar Creed
Alibaba at 35 years old and pony Mar
Creed T at 35 years old so it's a very
good sign I was like okay that's a good
pep talk let's do it so um so I I was um
I finally I made the decision you know
quit Louis Vuitton to start to create
the Vain and our Vision never changed
actually you know from the beginning
always try to figure out how to use that
technology to create um valuable
applications for real business and I and
also I have a very strong belief you
know the blockchain is just like
internet will change everything will you
know make revolutionary change to the
whole world to to everyone and how we
can get started so I always question
myself like what's your strength what
what's what what's what is some
something you can really make you
outstanding or you know um and I was
thinking like okay I'm I'm not the
purely technical guys and I do have some
business resources and plus I'm thinking
about I was thinking about the first use
case I try to build and referring to um
the project the last Global project I
did when I was in Louis Vuitton it was a
Tru and Trace you know Global Truck and
trade system so you know I was just like
okay what about we replace database by
blockchain what what kind of the change
could happen and everything just
starting from there you know I then I
lock myself up with bunch of the tech
geks um you know we met in the the
different meetups the different even the
Bitcoin talk as well and you know start
to challenge each other and I was
holding one job is like okay you build
up the solution finally you know based
on our product design actually I was not
the only product manager Pro product
manager actually it was a group of
people like three or four people you
know um sitting together spending days
talk about the features talk about the
requirements so after that they were
like okay sunny you have a job to make
sure or convince Louis Vuitton to use
our Solution that's your only job so get
to your get to the Paris and get the job
done and I was like wow that's a little
bit tough um sure I mean I I went to my
old Connections in the airm group and
luckily um I have a very good friend
also my mentor he was um Global CEO of
Joni is one of the brand of FV match so
I I spent you know 30 minutes with him
and um try to sell our solution to him
and tell him what blockchain is what
blockchain can do back to 2015 and he
was like uh I don't understand what
you're saying you know whatever you're
saying doesn't make any sense you know
it's totally I I I don't get it so I I
kind of you know use a very hard seal
skills is like okay Philip we have been
good friends you promis you're gonna
help me when I decide to leave Louis
Vuitton you told me like I'm a good guy
you want to help me so here's here's you
know the promise I'm kind of redeem the
credits I kind of redeem here just let
me try you know give me one line of
products let me try and I'm not going to
charge you anything but if you're you
know your team not only you because he
was the CEO right and also your team
your supply gen team your it team feel
you know comfortable about the solution
then we talk about a business later so
you know we spent a few months in Paris
I always remember I was um getting a
Airbnb you know considering about the
cost I was getting a basement room
without window but spent a few months
with my product manager with my engineer
over there and eventually you know we
build up the solution they are pretty
happy about that and couple years later
by end of 2019 we're able to cover 100%
of leather goods of jeni globally you
know it feel like so much um let's say
if it feel really proud about this kind
of achievement even nowaday they're
still using that kind of solution um for
Global Supply Chain management so and
honestly everything start from there you
know it's it's it's I would consider
there is some kind of Randomness you
know let's say if I don't know those
people if I not able to convince them
even I don't redeem my credits or even
he could still could say no right that
could be a totally different story but
um I I feel like it's kind of like a
like a fate of the technology s maybe
not me but somebody else would do the
similar things and eventually uh make a
push to the entire industri so that's uh
yeah that's that's how we get started
you know that that was our first
business case yeah that's amazing and
you were able to leverage your previous
ties in corporate world to make this use
case come to life but that's also um
something I was a little curious hearing
about and maybe uh you're going to have
more of a positive response than I would
have thought but 2015 when you started
vchain uh Bitcoin doesn't even
necessarily have a future you know the
Bitcoin ETF isn't even a thing that's
going to be talking about for another n
years what were your friends and family
and co-workers saying when you're
leaving the Louis Vuitton and the
bicardi and the 3M and you're going to
start your own scrappy little blockchain
project out of a Airbnb basement room in
Paris I know I know besides all of the
you know my friends or my um let's say I
I would I want to I would like to share
stories about my mom and dad you know my
my mom was my mom's response was like
are you crazy like he she even used a
cursing word you know are you
crazy but my dad was a little bit um
let's say surprising to me to be honest
um he was he was pausing for I think a
few minutes and then he he told me the
the most touching words to me in my
whole life he was like you know whatever
you try to chase after I even I don't
understand but my by the way my dad was
a violin players he was a musician so he
was like I don't I don't get it I don't
understand that but if you really decide
to do that and I will let you know how
much money I can give it to you you know
to um to support your your saying even
you feel come back you know we we can
stop from scratch redo it again whatever
um but um do whatever you want to do so
I was like I only I got my tears you
know in my eyes and almost instantly and
from that day I was like okay I got to
make him make my old man proud you know
about whatever we want to do um so I I
think my dad really give me the last
push you know for sure I was thinking
about all of the you know changes could
happen the the the possible difficulties
the
challenges Give an example you know um
when I was working with know we travel
like business class everywhere always
checking the five star hotels but one
week later you know when you think about
moving to or or staying in Paris you're
going to live in a basement without
window and you know for for a few months
and you didn't even know like um how how
can we how can we get the the fund in
the next six months it just just like
that so it's it's only say it's a huge
change um to my life to my entire life
um but um until now I I still feel like
that's a right choice that's the right
decision and I I won't regret I if I
have the chance to back over again I
going to do it like million times again
so um yeah that's uh that's a that's
really touching honestly you know I I
keep holding my eyes now I when I single
my dad I almost cried like instantly
that's that's really um heart- touching
my dad said he doesn't understand what I
do but as long as I don't ask him for
money then he's happy with the job that
I take so a little bit of support but uh
different different types of phrasing
and wording um I love that this kind of
launch of vchain feels very much like it
was fate and there were a lot of um
factors that that kind of played out to
um it get to where vchain is at today so
I before we hit record I was mentioning
that I've been around in in the
blockchain space since
2017 and um I very much remember V
Chain's narrative back then was let's
focus on supply chain and I think the
first time I'd ever heard of kind of
using RFID chips or NFC chips or QRC
scans or QR code scans excuse me for
tracking where goods come from and where
they go to that was the first time uh
I'd ever heard of this type of you use
case and it was surrounding vchain so
that was the narrative back in 2017 what
are today's key Focus areas what's
today's narrative for the blockchain
ecosystem yeah well um there are for
sure the market has been like so Dynamic
right lots of changes happening and
actually um for us it's a same we have
been keep evolving keep iterating um one
thing we did I think no one else in this
market has done before is we released a
three times of white paper um you know
the first time in 2017
um let's say it kind of make the
statement to everyone like what kind of
the blockchain platform we try to build
right so um we also for sure leading to
Ico and we get the F raing started we
spend the next whole year to deliver the
vain blockchain Vin th blockchain as a
layer one public blockchain platform and
with with some of the really cool
features I think even one of them like
feed delegation we are the first one to
deliver outside of you know the out of
entire uh blockchain space um so all of
those features all of those you know um
let's say the the the the setup or the
configurations of of our blockchain
network is actually coming from a
business demands you know because I I I
okay so Steve Jobs was one of my let's
say my Mo Mentor or like ra model my
role model I really look up to him um I
remember one of the one of of his speech
to answer the answer back to one of the
Challenge questions in in one of the
event is about you know it's about like
a cool product or amazing or successful
product always needs to get back or
starting from business requirements and
leading to a technical delivery or
technical invention not the backwards I
really believe that as well and you know
we all of our deliveries for the for our
layer one blockchain form is actually
you know coming from those possible
application or what we have done before
the Ico like 15 16 you know all of the
requirements we get or challenges we
faced from the possible business users
um you know whatever successful or
unsuccessful cases and then we think
about how to put into our layer one
blockchain platform so that was the the
beginning and then in 2019 we released
the second version white paper and focus
on Enterprise adoption like we said you
like I said you know we never change the
course I always think about how to bring
the value how to create the the
connection to the real world and and
even the idea was coming from the track
and choice project I did in Louis Von so
basically it's very close to supply
chain I still believe that you know
supply chain could be a supply chain
application could be the lwh hanging
fruit to any kind of Enterprise users
you know even back the days think about
talking to those Enterprise people about
use token or you know cryptocurrency
they were like are you crazy or how do I
do that right even the the finance guys
were were bit challenging like how do I
book the accounting um there is no such
rules what what about the taxation is it
legal is not legal those type of
challenges
so take off all of that and what is the
lwh hanging fruits to to R those
Enterprise you know to try and explore
applications on the blockchain I would
say supply chain was um was a low
hanging fruits was a even even I
remember one of my friends said uh oh
that's your children horse you know to
get the Enterprise coming and then start
to you know um experience a little bit
um and in
2020 I think it was 2021 we start to
think about okay what is next you know
after the 2019 we accumulated about 100
different uh use cases uh with different
Enterprise like you know wart we buil of
the food safety for Walmart um a few
days ago they just reached to 2 million
crw a day I mean I was really ex proud
and also you know feel like a little bit
emotional to talk to my team I say like
this is not only the trading or defi
transactions it's a it's a real smart
contract you know from a business
business it generate the business value
that's something really meaningful
outstanding I was really emotional about
that um but nevertheless starting from
2019 we accumulated about 100 use cases
and um and in 2021 we start to think
about what is the next level you know
what is what could be the future of the
blockchain applications and we feel like
you know whatever we have done before um
firstly we call it block database type
blockchain a so basically just replace
the database by the blockchain right and
it feels like it's great but not that
like there are huge potential of the
blockchain of the crypto has not been
utilized and not been revealed yet even
feel like only maybe 15% of the
potential of the blockchain technology
um so we we think about you know
eventually after a few discussions
internally I feel like you know the
future blockchain application should or
must have token in play it have been
some something in the in the future
ecosystem in the future applications um
I I was using um um um figury um speech
about you know what blockchain
application could be um if you think
about a blockchain platform like public
one layer one public platform as um
skeleton to a body and all of the all of
the technical features all of the smart
contracts um actually acting as um
muscles of a human body and you're
missing a very important one is the
blood what what what what what kind of
you know which is a token token is
Flowing around in entire the ecosystem
connecting everything giving the the
fuel to the muscle to the skeleton to um
you know to make a people life um so I I
feel like you know the future
application should have token in play
and how can we find or discover um you
know any kind of the let's say
blockchain application with a token in
play so then we start to brainstorming
we start to dig out um also I got some
kind of a belief back then I feel like
you know the regulation will change you
know it's just matter of the time we
should do it now until you know the
regulation happens then we don't waste
any time on that so well we still you
know spend some time until like March
202 way um we co-authored and released
the white paper with btg Boston
Consulting Group as a Ser version the
latest version of white paper we call
web for better actually we summarize the
lwh hanging fruits again you know for
token in play that kind of blockchain
application should be sustainability and
also out of all of the experences you
know Journeys we have been working with
a hundred of different um Enterprise
there is the biggest common spot is
actually sustainability everyone talks
about sustainability everyone talks
about you know even invest the future
for sustainability I was able to talk to
um you know one of the let's say I I was
in one of a Amazon meeting um with the
manufacturing team talking about the
possible suppli in case um with Amazon a
few years ago they told me like Jeff
bados invested $10 billion every year to
sustainability even they don't know what
to do at that time but you know they
they just invested and I feel like wow
if people like Jeff BS make that kind of
decision you know that means it kind of
prove our series prove our stories so um
anyway so we specify and we call upgrade
the strategy to be more focused on
sustainability implementations um for
two reason one I think the mying puzzle
for sustainability implementation is to
miss the individual involvement you know
we we keep hearing or keep witness the
big Corporation make a um you know big
events sers the officials are talk about
sustainability or making a great
inspirational speech but what what are
those those things down to earth like we
can we can see we can feel it every day
we we we don't have it right so missing
the individual involvement it was
actually um one of the biggest
challenges we believe in sustainability
and the second web three is the perfect
answer you know web is about connecting
the normal people connecting to the
individuals are not instead of
formalized so like a traditional labor
contract or or service agreement right
right let's use a Smart contract let's
predefine some rules and you know we
play by the rules and you know you get
get your contribution you get the
rewards that's web St so the funny thing
is after we you know released the Y
paper a few months later I was able
talking to one of them um our portfolio
projects and they get endorsed um by UND
DP so the the small apps is called aword
um they're focus on the sustainability
focus on the fdg uh from undp that kind
of campaigns for the different
Enterprise users do they told me like
sunny I really like your idea because
few like a few years ago when undp
launched the 17 SG they actually the
original plan was 18 SG the number 18
was how to incentivize individuals for
positive behaviors to be more
sustainable and due to the lack of you
know technology or or way to do that so
they kind of dropped out you know they
make it as a 17 SG only and now we got a
chance you know I think it's about like
using the web to incentivize individuals
to do the sustainability action on a
daily basis and record proved by the
blockchain using the token to
incentivize them you know perfect so
that's a perfect answer so in summary
what we are actually doing is um
following the wi paper launched in 2023
working with the partner like BCG um to
let's say build up the ecosystem um for
specifically for sustainability and you
know again we're it cannot be done by us
only um it's about ecosystem so we
position ourselves as as enabler you
know we wanted to enable the different
type of projects whatever is coming from
the traditional web 2 companies or the
new web3 entrepreneurs startups or even
some associations they're doing the
sustainability actions anyway our job is
building up the platform and you know
the necessary tools to enable they are
able to digitalize what they're doing
and make it you know record recorded and
approved by the blockchain and encourage
more people to do the same thing so
start from the symbol you know that's
that's sustainability is our new um
direction or new upgraded strategy we
have been focused on that um since a few
years ago yeah so in my former life I
was an urban planner and sustainability
was huge uh focal area for how do we uh
build cities so that they can be
resilient and they can be sustained
through uh economic downturns through
environmental
catastrophes uh just through so many
different types of I guess we could call
them attack vectors so when we look at
like vchain Thor um there are if you go
to vchain Stats you can see how many
carbon emissions have been re um exuded
by the network so when we're talking
about sustainability you didn't even
bring up environmental concerns you're
talking about the personal level so I'm
just curious what are all the various
different facets of sustainability that
as a foundation you guys place a
priority on it's obviously carbon
emissions and um empowering people by
allowing them to leverage the network
for their business needs are there other
considerations that you guys uh keep in
mind when you're viewing this goal of
creating a sustainable blockchain
ecosystem yeah for sure um but firstly I
I have to say sustainability is um Way
Beyond just environmental impacts or
climate change okay so from what we
understand there are three pillars about
sustainability one is obvious one
environmental change or climate change
and the second is actually we call it um
economic sustainabil ility and number
three even more challenging is we call
social sustainability or you know
involving those kind of human capital um
even even it's let's say it's quite a
broader concept or broader way or views
um about sustainability for sure most of
people were looking at or think or
connected the sustainability concept to
the environmental change or to the
climate change instantly because it's
the visible one you know people can see
the changes for example you know I in in
March uh last year I was in Vegas for
for a summit and it was a big snow over
there and then you feel like whoa you
know snow in the dether you know that
that kind of the impacts kind of make
you feel more connected or like you know
understanding about the climate change
but actually sustainability is is more
Way Beyond that kind of concept but for
what we try to do you know is not really
really like environmental change or uh
social change or human capital those
type of things we actually try to down
to us you know there are lots of the
different players associations if the
governments are folks on the different
layers of sustainability but we try to
down to us and we are able to let's say
we we we want to build up the platform
to be able to collaborate collaborate
with any kind of narratives I don't I
don't care if it's yes G or sdg or
carbon footprint or water Footprints
what we try to do is to create Ena
platform to be able to host a
application for normal people so for
example when you drive a EV like if you
drive a Tesla right and you're saving
the carbon emission to the whole world
to have less C emissions so what you're
doing is we we wanted to work with let's
say um this kind of the normal people
getting the driving activity becomes
digitalized and make the impacts to to
the entire environment that's that's
obvious one and using the let's say
talking about the carbon credits it's
just because it's very visible like like
what I just shared and also there is a
global standard like ISO standard for
carbon credits you do one thing how much
carbon credits you can get or how much
even there is a um centralized exchange
like traditional exchange to treat about
those carbon credits right but still I
would say it's way more than that and
we're just try to go to the different
angle different level like to to
encourage and motivate um you know the
normal people to live in a sustainable
life and maybe what you do is very small
or fractional impact to the
sustainability no one could recognize no
one you know understand that or able to
track that but with web stre technology
we're able to or track it on the
blockchain and eventually could create a
collective value let's use the carbon
credit um similar applications as a
example you know we did the the case
with byd for the carbon credits in 2019
um we did the calculation you know if
you drive 2,000 miles a year uh with a
EV as a normal people right 2,000 miles
is normal people and you probably save
$50 in terms of the price of of carbon
credits and it's a very fractional
amount of value and people may not even
care about it you know nobody willing to
pay somebody for $50 just by driving
2,000 miles e um so what about you think
think from the different angle if
everyone doing that somehow doing that
and think about how many EVS in the
Earth on the earth you know Tesla
manufacturer delivered like 2 million
cars every year new cars every year and
not mentioning about the other players
and if we're talk about 10 million cars
EVS on the earth driving averagely
20,000 miles a year how much value you
know for those 10 million cars so we're
talking about you know um $500 million
already right and it's it's really a
massive value but only revealed only ex
could be discovered because it's already
there just nobody are able to discover
that but you know with that kind of the
ecosystem we try to build our our one of
the critical job for us is to find and
discover the collective value coming
from the fractional effort of the normal
people and the web stre is just a
perfect tool to make it happen and then
it's about how to you know make you know
I I guess I have to do a hot sales job
again you know try to S this kind of
collect to Value to somebody I but
honestly I think it's much much easier
than few years ago and by the way we got
the BCG to uh believe in this kind of um
you know the future and willing to go to
the market together I feel more you know
confident more you know comforable about
the future job like that so yeah that's
that's something we we we we want to do
you you've brought up btg a handful of
times and I just want to uh help shape
the signific
for the listeners could you just explain
um who btg is and kind of through this
partnership on the third white paper
maybe the new sets of eyes or the new
groups of people that you're able to
reach out to now because you do have
this collaboration sure I mean BCG is uh
I think is number two um biggest firm in
the world um the B Boston Consulting
Group is um is a very large corporation
you know with um 100,000 employees
across the whole world um I don't I
don't even remember like how many
billions they have been generating as a
revenue every year um but basically you
know I think um they are they're one of
the top firms in the world you know
think about Innovation think about the
technology development um those type of
um you know business and um a few years
ago a couple years ago you know I came
across with the BCG pner who was Guy
gillin Dr guy gillin he actually is um
the MD of BCG Dallas I think yeah he's
MD managing director of BCG Dallas and
you know a very occasional conversations
we just discover BCG also put two things
sitting in the top of the strategy
globally number one sustainability you
know they're think about any kind of use
case any kind of um you know um let's
say applications for the clients um also
second is about web stre about the
cryptocurrency about the blockchain
technology and then we feel like okay
you know it's it's kind of like a like a
we we fall in love to each other you
know at the first blind day and so we
start to talk about like why don't we
why don't we write about what we try to
do you know combine with um what you
know in sustainability areas because
well sure they are the expert on that
you know and we are the web three
experts we know the blockchain stuff and
let's work together to starting from the
white paper and you know we go to the
market together so basically simply to
say um we will be able to let's say I I
don't want to use leverage it's a little
bit you know kind of but we will be able
to go to the market together with BCG
you know utilize their networks their
business networks their resources to
bring any one who willing to contribute
to sustainability or build up the
sustainability applications together on
the VIN so blockchain using um the
crypto using the tokens to build up the
new connection with with individual
users so um that's that's what we have
been doing for more than a year actually
you know starting from the white bber
and now we're following up the the go-to
market strategy uh building up the the
ecosystem um just in the next couple
monthes we will deliver uh you know the
the the let's say the the first version
of the future ecosystem and then you
know we're just playing the Legos and
through the different uh players
different applications different
business models into that and you know
grow from that so I'm I honestly I'm
very impressed about the BCG because you
know nowadays is a little bit different
right with ETF get approved uh with um
uh maika to be launched in Europe
Enterprise is different view but think
about that we will start to talk to each
other to build up the future uh
Enterprise ecosystem for sustainability
since later 2022 and you know they have
I I would call they do have a guts you
know to go really Beyond um that that
kind of let's say even the regulation is
not ready yet but they believe in that
you know they they they want to go all
in um in this kind of Direction with us
together so I I'm pretty impressed about
that and so far I'm still very happy to
work with them and we're continue to
work we so you've you continueed to kind
of bring up a lot of the current and
future Enterprise partners that vchain
will be onboarding into the ecosystem
but I was also kind of pleasantly
surprised to see that there are things
like nft projects and there are ways for
just your average retail user to
leverage the network which to me was
kind of uh an eyeopener because uh you
know dating back to to 2017 uh if you've
paid attention to all of the dino chain
narratives vchain was always the supply
chain the Enterprise chain so can you
share a little bit more about how you
guys have maybe pleasantly op your arms
to the retail developer to the retail
Builder to your kind of crypto Twitter
Anon who wants to launch an nft project
yeah I mean firstly that credits has to
go we call vam it's a VIN family is our
communities that's the best community I
ever seen to be honest um that that
credits definitely go to them you know
all of those you know um the the the the
passionate guys and you know that those
teams are are amazing honestly amazing
so um well firstly I have to say vchain
is a l one blockchain platform right
even we have been since 2019 after the
second white Pap focus on the Enterprise
adoptions but it doesn't mean vchain is
only able to do supply chain we're only
able to do the Enterprise level
applications actually you can do
everything you can do anything you want
um on the other side we have been
providing that kind of business
scenarios to those Community projects
for sure not on the retail side but also
on the business side I give an example
um we have been working with one of our
community project what of V for deliver
um you know the the collectible nft for
ATP to uh ATP Rome back to May 2023 so
we have been working with the ATP
Federation or Association you know to
put the chips set attached to the chopi
and give it to those Champions and also
providing some you know collectible the
solution nft plus the chips for uh any
for like a collectible uh souvenirs some
of them you know players racket the
sneakers they donate for for charity and
eventually we reach to the top of the
use case actually we'll work with um
jock witch Foundation to make auction in
the nft way for um the the tennis ret
jock which won the Australian um
Championship or something um and all of
the earnings it's in crypto and you know
eventually goes to the jock witch
foundation for the charity and one of
Committee Member in the United States
won the auction by nft and using the nft
to claim the the the physical racket
from The Jock wit foundation so we also
provide this kind of let's say use case
for our community projects even they
have been focused on or you know try to
deliver um those kind of retail based
applications but those kind of
applications is not only for retail
users but but also you know making the
bridge connection with those Enterprises
so we we let's say we wanted to firstly
we really appreciate the amazing work
has been done by the community and we
want to provide them more support so
like like I got the question about the
UFC more all all the time you know to me
UFC is not just for visibility sure it's
great visibility but I I think much
better than that is it's a Community
engagement tool you know we are able to
using the UFC to build up that kind of
interaction connections with different
community members around the whole world
there are 40 something fights every year
in 20 something cities in in the word
and every time when we have a UFC we
always you know organize vam Gatherings
and we're able to share interact you
know um you know even even um listen the
feedback from the community oh what you
have done wrong what you have done well
how we gonna you know what's the ideas
for the future all of that stuff and
it's it's very good tool for for for
that and plus on this we also looking at
UFC as a possible use case you know
whatever for from that kind of the
virtual rankings or nft um you know
utility possible utility in the Futures
it's also a possible use case and we
like to connect you know with our
community projects to um to to play in
that as well because eventually it's
really about how do you um build up the
the sustainable products and solutions
not just for jpack files you know you
got to have a utility as well you got to
have a use case as well so that's that's
what we uh have been doing and plus on
that on top of everything we will launch
um just in coming days we will launched
the ground 2.0 um you know it's a new
program for Vin grounds to support um
all of the community projects even the
individual developers actually more than
just developers firstly you know we
upgrade from 30k top to would raise up
the cap of of um ground program from 30k
to 100K um so that means the best one
you can win 100K on that and also we get
down that's that's something I learned
from Ax X do actually Twitter we also
push down the minimum Grant to like
hundreds or even a thousand dollars you
know to more than just coders actually I
I just saw the Tweet I'm pretty exciting
about that one of our community members
want a mini Grant like $2,000 by
contributing um you know the the
community organizing the the Twitter
sharing those type of things actually
it's very it's also very important as
well so with this kind of the upgrades
of the grant we will be able to let's
say getting more uh Builders not only
just technical Builders but also you
know the the if you have business ideas
if you're good sales good marketer you
know you always can find a place in that
big family and you are able to get the
grant as well so that's yeah you sorry
to cut you off you just kind of touched
upon this um this line of questioning I
really was interested in asking you
about um you know being a
nine-year-old's project we're in a
market and we're in an industry where
the shiny new thing is the thing that
everybody cares about and you kind of
touched upon the change in the grants
program to uh lower the threshold uh to
maybe your smaller non-technical
contributors but also increase the
threshold to maybe your more technical
teams who don't quite have that
million-dollar business use case yet I'm
just really curious to he from your
perspective how do you go about building
a community in an industry where the
shiniest new thing the the dogcoin with
a hat or the Pepe coin or whatever is
the thing that everybody's talking about
today um is it more than just grants
programs what else have you guys seen as
uh success in growing a community um I
would say the different project has
different pattern or different style
let's put this way and um for us I
I think we have been choosing or stick
on the past maybe the most difficult way
to let's say build up the community um
it's um it's always let's say um
engaging with the community and also
empower the community it's not like you
know okay you're just a investor and you
know um watching what we're been playing
or doing and then cheer like as a
cheerleader cheer for us I think you
know the the true web stre spirit is
about engaging the people together and
contribute to your own project like it's
it's not really I would to say vain is
not really my project my personal
project No it should be like you know
every vam members project that's your
own thing and actually I I'm I'm I'm
very glad and also proud to see there
are many vent members in the community
feel that way you know you you got
engaged you get um you know um also re
recognized
and let's say rewarded by whatever the
contribution you do and actually is
quite a fitting our future
sustainability ecosystem as well you
know actually we're learning from what
the vent Community has been doing you
know put into the future sustainability
ecosystem as well it's like make
everyone contribute make everyone do the
part and you get recognized you get
rewarded you get motivated to continue
to do that um so that's that's something
like honly it's really really hard and I
I got that type of question from most of
you know the the startups or or let's
say the young uh entrepreneurs they
always asking that kind of question I
think it's kind of the biggest challenge
to most of the people how to build up
that kind of community right I would say
it's you know we should start with
so-call consensus like if we're able to
believe in the same thing I would say to
be summarized we all believe in the
future of the blockchain we all believe
in the direction or strategy um upgraded
the strategy of vchain and you know we
keep delivering we keep delivering the
what we have been promised or what we
been you know um make it public and even
even honestly more than what we have
make it a public because there were many
ndas unfortunately it's part of a you
know traditional word rules um but we
keep doing that you know um it's kind of
buil up that kind of strong bonding of
of Vin community and everybody including
myself have been very proud of you know
in this community so like and starting
from
2022 I think the best um one of the best
uh decision we make together is you know
go to the UFC and use that kind of UFC
as the platform for all of our vchain
community members and we have been you
know my team is just fantastic they have
been let's say putting really Innovative
um collaboration with UFC Give an
example we try to gain more um you know
we call money you cannot buy experiences
for community members you know so for
example you can you can go to the
performance Institute it's like a
facility of the UFC in Vegas you can
train with the fighters together one
hour with the with a professional coach
with all of the professional instruments
you know the monitors monitor your punch
monitor your power of your legs or your
cardio rates and everything it that kind
of experience is just amazing you know
but you know even myself I never done
that I never use that kind of privilege
to go to that kind of money you cannot
experience you cannot buy experience
it's all goes to the community you every
time we we bargain we argue with UFC we
gain a few slots all goes to community
so that's something like we we we we
prove and also we share with a community
like okay we're family members we're
just doing the different type of jobs
but we work towards the same goal we
work on the same Mission together so I I
think that's a fundamental and we want
to keep it up you know with I I I
believe again V vam is the best
Community ever in the world I also would
not want to mess with anyone from VF fam
if they're getting one-on-one coaching
from UFC
[Laughter]
coaches um wrapping up uh we only have a
few more minutes um I want to draw on
the knowledge you've built over nine
years building in the space and 11 years
paying attention to this space so I
guess um this is always kind of
difficult question so I'll just ask it
it's a two-part question okay um in the
years you've been here what are you
surprised that blockchain technology has
yet to develop what have we not created
yet that you thought we would have had
in
2015 and secondly what are you surprised
that's here today that you didn't think
about when you were first launching
vchain in 2015 huh that's a very good
question actually um so first aart
actually I think a blockchain has done
has well we let's say I witnessed many
type of the use case like when we um
back to 2013 or 14 you know start to
brainstorming about what blockchain can
do what blockchain can really um
generate the the unique value can
generate I think here or there more or
less you know you can witness some of
the cases here and there but I think the
biggest challenge is still like Mass
adoptions you know what what I'm really
surprised to see is why we still don't
having that kind of application people
are using every day which even without
knowing there is a blockchain behind
that right it's it's like the internet
you know the technical guy knows about a
tcpip or SMTP for email but there are
billions of people using the email
without knowing that right I think what
we really let's say um I'm I'm really
surprising is after well not really
surprising I mean even the blockchain 15
years now until now right starting from
2009 so 15 years and it's still baby I
would say in the early stage of of the
entire industry um but I would be I
would be thrilled to see if there is
this kind of a product um with or even
without business model well think about
that email doesn't have a business model
right so we need that kind of email type
of blockchain application let massive
people like billions of users in the
world are using that that's that's um
something I've been struggling where
I've been like really pushing myself and
my team as well and I I this morning
when I talked to my technical team and
product managers I told them like we
need a sum of application my mom can use
that my mom is a 70 years old Chinese
lady doesn't speak English at all if she
can use the application then you do a
good job you
know so we I would say we need that type
of application but I I honestly I I
think one thing um to answer your second
part of the question I never thought the
regulation can move that fast to be
honest you know um we think about the
MAA launch this year we think about ETF
um of Bitcoin Spa get approved just a
few days ago you know well remember that
the first Bitcoin uh future ETF took us
eight years starting from 2013 to 2021
and then just another two years well a
little bit less than two years from
November 2023 or 21 to January 2024 just
one and a half years we got a spot
approved you know it's it's really um um
I always say it's a significant
milestone for everyone you know it kind
of paves away not only from the fund
investment size to the market for sure
it would be like billions of dollars
even trillions of dollars inject into
the market you know by time but also it
kind of paves way for those Enterprises
for those companies you know when you
think about the crypto is not just the
evil part right I you know in in the
last few years every time when I talk to
those non- crypto people we call it them
magos right they were like no no no
crypto is evil you know think about Lo
think about FTX no crypto is evil but
nowadays it kind of you know clean up
the the names PVE the way it's just a
tool and the regulation is make sure the
tool is in the right hand so let's be
the good guys and use the tool for the
right thing so that's that's really
honestly it's a nice surprise you know I
was uh I even couldn't believe that in
January 10 I was you know checking the
Twitter checking the the news
every five minutes and eventually got it
got like a little bit quiet you know
revealed and I was like still couldn't
believe that and people may not
understand the significance people even
struggle about oh after the ETF got
approved thanks to gbtc or G skill you
know you kind of um the price down a bit
I was like you got to look at the
long-term value you got to look at the
the significance of this ETF get
approved it's much more than just the
money just much more than the price much
more than the market impact it's
actually kind of open the new door to
the new arrow and eventually I think uh
you know the blockchain was Shifting the
gears into the real world adoptions um
you know focus on the real values and
eventually the players even you know
could have come in more from
professional word coming from
traditional word Enterprise word and
it's um it's definitely a very
interesting and a very exciting mingling
process you know crypto people
non-crypto people were start to U mingle
to each other and that that's GNA be a
huge Sunny um this was a phenomenal way
to spend an hour thank you so much for
uh sharing your thoughts insights
Lessons Learned The Experience you've
gained your vision um and all in such a
a fun light-hearted passionate engaged
way um I am super excited to have gotten
to chat with you I feel like this is uh
a top five interview I've gotten to host
so thank you so much for for taking the
time to chat with us on the smart
economy podcast today yeah thank you to
um have me here I feel very
inspirational conversations you know
those questions are not easy to answer
but um I feel like uh it's pretty
inspirational as well I I like to do it
again you know um a few let's say once
we have more and more development and
updates Let's uh let's do it again share
more um yeah let's let's touch base in a
couple quarters and see what the results
of white paper 3.0 are yeah yeah yeah
lovely awesome well have a great day
sunny and thank you so much and I look
forward to chatting again yeah thank you
thank you so much cheers well what did
you think of that conversation I
couldn't help but think about the
passion that Sunny continues to bring to
this space even after building here for
9 years and going I really enjoyed
hearing about the significance and value
that the vchain foundation is placing on
their community and how that will be
reflected in the upcoming changes to the
second version of their grants program
and it was just fascinating to hear from
sunny and OG in this space how far he
thinks we've come in terms of
regulations but also how far we still
have to go in terms of gaining mass
adoption to keep up to date with this
podcast head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if
you've liked the guests that we've had
on this show please consider showing
support for the show by giving us a
five-star rating and leaving a review
every rating and review on your favorite
podcasting platform helps get us in
front of more people to help showcase
the great guests that we've had on the
show and of course if you're a Neo token
holder please consider voting for Neo
news today as your Council
representative we've proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since 2017 and
will continue to put portions of our
Council income directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives with all
that said thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast and we look forward to catching
you next
time